[Music]
Good morning and welcome to
Build. You know, it's always uh fun to
be back at Build. Uh especially in times
like this. You know, we're just about
getting into these middle innings of
another platform shift. Uh and these
middle innings are where all things
happen, all things scale. In fact, it
reminds me uh for me, you know, 91 and
wind32 or um you know, the web stack in
96 uh 2008 and cloud and mobile u and
here we are uh in 2025 building out this
open aentic web at scale.
And more
importantly, you know, it's all about
expanding that opportunity for
developers across every layer of the
stack so that you all can build the
apps, the agents that can empower every
person in every organization on the
planet. That's what we will unpack at
this conference. You know, software
engineering has always been about having
the right tools to bring your ideas to
life, continually perfect and craft and
tame complexity. AI has become so
central to how we code and that's why
we're open sourcing C-Pilot in VS Code.
We're really excited about
this. You know, this is a big deal.
Starting today, we will integrate these
AI powered capabilities directly into
the core of VS Code, bringing them into
the same open-source repo that powers
the most world's most loved uh dev tool.
This is the next big step forward, which
is a full coding agent built right into
GitHub, taking Copilot from being a pair
programmer to a peer programmer. You can
assign issues to copilot bug fixes, new
features, code maintenance, and it'll
complete these tasks auto autonomously.
And today, I'm super excited that it's
now available to all of
you. Now, let's go up the stack. Uh
let's talk about the platform
opportunity of Microsoft 365. Uh I'm
very excited about the latest update to
Microsoft uh 365 copilot which is now
generally available. It's really
exciting to see this. It really brings
together chat, search, notebooks, create
and agents all into this one scaffolding
that's intuitive. Uh right I always say
this is the UI for AI. Today, we're
introducing a new class of
enterprisegrade agents you can build
using models fine-tuned on your
company's data workflows and style. We
call it co-pilot tuning.
It's all about taking that expertise
that you have as a firm and further
amplifying it so that everyone in the
company gets it and also your products
and and services reflect it. As models
evolve uh and you know faster and become
more capable with new samples being
dropped like every couple of months uh
the apps will have to evolve uh to
become these full stateful applications
that are multimodel and multi- aent.
Think of foundry like a production line
for intelligence. You know today uh
we're going further. Uh we it starts for
Foundry with model choice. You know, we
already support
1,900 models, whether they're response
models, reasoning models, task specific,
multimodal, you name it, they're all
there in Foundry. That's why today we're
thrilled to announce Grock from XAI is
coming to
Azure. And now you can provision
throughput once on foundry and you can
across you can use all that provision
throughput across multiple models
including grock right that's just a
gamecher in terms of how you think about
uh models and model provisioning and so
now once you do that you now have
mistrol uh with which you can even
provision with all the sovereign
deployment in EU region which
increasingly becomes a massive
consideration for people building
applications around the world because I
think increasingly there will be models
people would prefer in different parts
and we're excited about Mistral Lama. I
was at Llama Con recently with Mark and
you know as he likes to say he's
bringing the full herd of llama uh the
full llama herd uh to Azure. We're
excited about all the advances that
they're making in open-source Black
Forest Labs and many more. And we are
closing the you know the gap and the
loop between Foundry and Copilot Studio.
And this is pretty pretty key for us as
developers, right? You can now take a
model uh fine-tune it in or post-train
it uh in Foundry and then drop it right
into Copilot Studio so that you can now
use that post-trained model to automate
a workflow or build an agent. Right? So
that's the type of stuff that you can do
and it goes beyond that. Uh in the
future we believe every organization is
going to have people and agents working
together and that means the systems that
you are today using ubiquitously for
things like identity uh management of
endpoints security will now need to
extend to agents as well. That's a big
deal right? You want the same rails uh
that you use today at scale to work
across people and agents. uh and that's
what we're doing so far. We've talked
about everything we're doing in the
cloud. Now, we want to bring the power
of this app server and app building
capability to the edge and clients as
well with Foundry local uh which we're
announcing today. It includes a very
Yeah, you know, it includes a fast high
performance runtime models, agents as a
service, uh, and a CLI for local app
development. And yes, it's fully
supported on Windows and the Mac. And
today, we're taking another step uh to
make uh Windows the best platform for
AI. And we're excited to announce the
Windows AI
Foundry. Windows will now include
several built-in MCP servers like file
systems, settings, app actions, as well
as windowing. uh and we're adding native
MCP registry that lets MCP compatible uh
clients discover the secure MCP servers
that have been vetted by us for security
performance all while keeping you in
control. Now speaking of WSL we first
announced Bash on Ubuntu on Windows
nearly 10 years ago. It subsequently
became what we obviously call you know
today
WSL. Looking back in fact the very first
issue in the repo was a request to open
source it. So let's go back and reopen
that very first issue and close it as
fixed. Uh because today we're making WSL
fully open source.
You know, so far we've talked a lot
about the agentic web and the ecosystem
around it coming together, whether it's
Microsoft 365 to Foundry all the way to
Windows. And I thought it would be great
to have Kevin Scott, our CTO, to give
you a broader perspective on this
ecosystem and our collective opportunity
to build a more agentic web. Welcome,
Kevin.
So, you know, we have heard from Satia
uh like just now about the MCP registry
in Windows uh like we're doing a ton of
work to enable Microsoft's firstparty
platform components and firstparty uh
services to be MCP uplifted. And the
idea behind NL web is it is a way for
anyone who has a website or an API
already to very easily make their
website or their API uh an Agentic
application. Um it lets you implement
and leverage the full power of large
language models to uh enrich the
services and products that you're
already offering. And because every NL
web uh endpoint is by default an MCP
server uh it means that those things
that people are offering up via NL web
will be accessible to any agent that
speaks M MCP. You know this the agentic
web vision that Kevin just described in
some sense gets us closer to even the uh
original vision and the ethos of the
web. uh both the content as well as the
intelligence now can be more distributed
and discoverable across the web. Now
moving uh to the next layer of the stack
uh data. We're making a ton of data news
uh at build uh starting in fact uh with
SQL Server 2025
uh that's launching and more importantly
we're bringing you know the data layer
and the intelligence closer than ever
before when it comes to fabric uh which
we launched uh here at Bill two years
ago. It's at the heart of our data and
analytics stack. Uh, and Fabric brings
together all your data, all your
workloads together into this one unified
experience. Uh, last fall we put SQL
into Fabric and today we're taking the
next big step. Uh, we're bringing Cosmos
DB to Fabric 2. You know, lastly, I want
to talk about one of my favorite
features now, which is coming to
PowerBI, which is C-pilot in PowerBI. So
that allows you to chat uh with all of
your data. You can ask questions about
data, visually explore, analyze it
across multiple PowerBI reports and
semantic models. And so we're very very
excited about that. Let's get to the
bottom layer of the stack which is
infrastructure. you know as a developer
uh you face that classic optimization
problem between delivering the best AI
experience in terms of performance and
latency and then of course you got to
deliver it with sort of monotonically
decreasing cost and our aim is to offer
the lowest cost highest scale
infrastructure to build both cloud and
next generation uh of AI workloads uh
and it all comes down to delivering the
most tokens per watt per dollar and
that's sort of the ultimate equation for
us and we're writing you know multiple
scurves right across silicon think of it
as classic Moore's law plus system
software optimization and the model
optimization it's the compounding
effects of those three S-curves uh and
we're doing all of this with real speed
right so when the anything gets ready
you want to bring it into the fleet uh
in fact Azure is the first cloud to
bring Nvidia GB200's online and do so at
scale. And so we're very very excited
about scaling this um and making it
available to all of you as developers.
Uh one of the most exciting things I
think that'll happen over the years to
come is we'll have real breakthroughs in
the scientific process itself. uh which
will really accelerate our ability to
create you know a new material a new
compound a new molecule um and that's
why we're bringing together the entire
stack I talked about today um and saying
look let's apply it to science and the
scientific workflow the scientific
process uh that's our ambition with
Microsoft discovery which we are
announcing today uh Microsoft
yeah you
But if you sort of think about GitHub
for software developers, Microsoft 365
and you know copilot and copilot studio
for knowledge work and business process,
Microsoft discovery is for science.
We're taking really a systems approach,
a platform approach which you can expect
from Microsoft across every layer uh of
the stack. uh right whether it's GitHub
and GitHub copilot enabling an open
ecosystem for the software development
life cycle uh Microsoft 365 uh copilot
and teams and copilot studio enabling
agents for every role and business
process uh and an agent factory in
foundry uh enabling you to build any AI
app any agent using any data all running
on worldclass
infrastructure and all of this on a
robust set of rails uh for management,
identity and
security. Ultimately though, all of this
is about creating opportunity to fuel
your
ambition. Thank you all very very much.
Enjoy the rest of build.